Now that we’ve made the decision to code
using the Typescript language, lets take a
brief look at some of the core language characteristics
as it relates to Angular 2.
Typescript is a superset of Javascript.
This means that we can write valid javascript
in a typescript file and it will get compiled
and work just the same as javascript.
This diagram represents the all encompassing
features that Typescript includes.
So you can write typescript code using all
the features of Ecmascript 5, which is the
current version of javascript.
You can also use all of the new features of
ES2015 which include arrow functions, module
loading, classes, inheritance, let and const
variable definition.
And you can also write typescript code using
special features suggested to be included
in a future version of javascript called ES7
which includes type annotations, type checking,
interfaces, generics and decorators.
We’ll be covering each one of these using
examples as we get to them while building
our Angular application.
The most heralded feature of Typescript is
that of type annotations which creates what’s
called Strong Typing.
Strong typing involves giving everything a
data type.
So every variable, function and function parameter
has a declared data type.
We define our data type by using a colon and
then the type we want to declare.
And these types are the same basic data types
your already familiar with such as: strings,
booleans, arrays and numbers.
Here are a few examples of strong typing.
In the first example we declare a class property
of pageTitle that has a type of string and
is being set equal to the string Welcome.
The function and function parameter examples
show how you how we’re able to define our
types by placing this colon directly after
the declared function and function parameter.
Then what we’re returning must match the
declared data type or we get thrown an error.
We can also set our function data type to
void when not returning anything.
This may seem like a hassle at first, and
it certainly did for me, but the benefits
far outweigh the costs.
There’s 2 main benefits to strong typing.
The first is syntax checking which happens
before code execution.
This has a big impact on helping us to find
bugs in our code that would otherwise be very
difficult to track down.
The second main benefit to strong typing is
it helps to create advanced development tools
in editors like Visual Studio and Sublime
text.
Some examples include code completion suggestions,
syntax highlighting and command line error
checking.
To quickly summarize the main benefits of
typescript: Number 1: enhanced javascript
language features, Number 2: better support
for syntax checking using strong typing, Number
3: additional editor tooling such as auto
completions and code highlighting.
Typescript was created by the people at Microsoft.
There is a very useful website called typescriptlang.org.
Here you can find a sample section that provides
plenty of code examples as well as a playground
section where you can play around writing
code in javascript and seeing how it compiles
into typescript.